To see filesystem types that are currently loaded in your kernel, type cat /proc/
filesystems. The list that follows shows a sample of filesystem types that are currently
supported in Linux, although they may not be in use at the moment or even available on
the Linux distribution you are using.
befs: Filesystem used by the BeOS operating system.
Note
With the addition of automatic mounting features and changes in how removable media are identified with the Linux
2.6 kernel (using features such as Udev and Hardware Abstraction Layer), you no longer need to mount removable
media manually for many Linux desktop systems. Understanding how to mount and unmount filesystems manually on
a Linux server, however, can be a very useful skill if you want to mount remote filesystems or temporarily mount partitions in particular locations.
Part III: Becoming a Linux System Administrator
292
btrfs: A copy-on-write filesystem that implements advanced filesystem features. It
offers fault tolerance and easy administration. The btrfs file system has recently
grown in popularity for enterprise applications.
cifs: Common Internet Filesystem (CIFS), the virtual filesystem used to access servers
that comply with the SNIA CIFS specification. CIFS is an attempt to refine and standardize the SMB protocol used by Samba and Windows file sharing.
ext4: Successor to the popular ext3 filesystem. It includes many improvements over
ext3, such as support for volumes up to 1 exbibyte and file sizes up to 16 tebibytes.
(This replaced ext3 as the default filesystem used in Fedora and RHEL. It has since
been supplanted by xfs as the default for RHEL.)
ext3: Ext filesystems are the most common in most Linux systems. Compared ext2,
the ext3 filesystem, also called the third extended filesystem, includes journaling features that, compared to ext2, improve a filesystem’s capability to recover
from crashes.
ext2: The default filesystem type for earlier Linux systems. Features are the same as
ext3, except that ext2 doesn’t include journaling features.
ext: This is the first version of ext3. It is not used very often anymore.
iso9660: Evolved from the High Sierra filesystem (the original standard for CD-ROMs).
Extensions to the High Sierra standard (called Rock Ridge extensions) allow iso9660
filesystems to support long filenames and UNIX-style information (such as file permissions, ownership, and links). Data CD-ROMs typically use this filesystem type.
kafs: AFS client filesystem. Used in distributed computing environments to share files
with Linux, Windows, and Macintosh clients.
minix: Minix filesystem type, used originally with the Minix version of UNIX. It supports filenames of up to only 30 characters.
msdos: An MS-DOS filesystem. You can use this type to mount media that comes from
old Microsoft operating systems.
vfat: Microsoft extended FAT (VFAT) filesystem.
exfat: Extended FAT (exFAT) file system that has been optimized for SD cards, USB
drives, and other flash memory.
umsdos: An MS-DOS filesystem with extensions to allow features that are similar to
UNIX (including long filenames).
proc: Not a real filesystem, but rather a filesystem interface to the Linux kernel. You
probably won’t do anything special to set up a proc filesystem. However, the /proc
mount point should be a proc filesystem. Many utilities rely on /proc to gain access
to Linux kernel information.
Chapter 12: Managing Disks and Filesystems
293
12
reiserfs: ReiserFS journaled filesystem. ReiserFS was once a common default filesystem
type for several Linux distributions. However, ext and xfs filesystems are by far
more common filesystem types used with Linux today.
swap: Used for swap partitions. Swap areas are used to hold data temporarily when
RAM is used up. Data is swapped to the swap area and then returned to RAM when it
is needed again.
squashfs: Compressed, read-only filesystem type. Squashfs is popular on live CDs,
where there is limited space and a read-only medium (such as a CD or DVD).
nfs: Network Filesystem (NFS) type of filesystem. NFS is used to mount filesystems on
other Linux or UNIX computers.
hpfs: Filesystem is used to do read-only mounts of an OS/2 HPFS filesystem.
ncpfs: A filesystem used with Novell NetWare. NetWare filesystems can be mounted
over a network.
ntfs: Windows NT filesystem. Depending upon the distribution you have, it may be supported as a read-only filesystem (so that you can mount and copy files from it).
ufs: Filesystem popular on Sun Microsystems’s operating systems (that is, Solaris
and SunOS).
jfs: A 64-bit journaling filesystem by IBM that is relatively lightweight for the many
features it has.
xfs: A high-performance filesystem originally developed by Silicon Graphics that works
extremely well with large files. This filesystem is the default type for RHEL 7.
gfs2: A shared disk filesystem that allows multiple machines to all use the same shared
disk without going through a network filesystem layer such as CIFS, NFS, and so on.
To see the list of filesystems that come with the kernel you are using, type
ls /lib/modules/kernelversion/kernel/fs/. The actual modules are stored in
subdirectories of that directory. Mounting a filesystem of a supported type causes the
filesystem module to be loaded, if it is not already loaded.
Type man fs to see descriptions of Linux filesystems.